Readme and documentation updates (#100)
ACCESS-NRI/build-ci: README.md

# build-ci

A central repository for reusable CI compilation testing workflows and containers used across ACCESS-NRI supported projects.

This repository is also responsible for building Docker images used for CI compilation testing.

## Overview

This repository contains three overarching CI pipelines:

### Dependency Image Pipeline

> This pipeline creates Docker images that contain an install of `spack`, a version of the `access-nri/spack_packages` [repository](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/spack_packages), and a set of independent `spack env`ironments that contain all the dependencies for all the model components of a coupled model.

Reviewer: Choose between "`spack env`" and "spack environments"

Author: Resolved as part of https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/build-ci/pull/100#discussion_r1332523976

Author: Good idea to contain a link to the docs, will incorporate that

This allows the install of modified models (and model components) for quick CI testing, rather than having to install an entire dependency tree every time a PR is opened.

> If you want to take a look, these packages can be [found here](https://github.com/orgs/ACCESS-NRI/packages?tab=packages&q=build-) in the `build-ci` repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These packages are in the [`build-ci` repo](https://github.com/orgs/ACCESS-NRI/packages?tab=packages&q=build-).
```

Reviewer: IIRC, Using text like "found here" in hyperlink text is discouraged.

### Model Test Pipeline

> This pipeline is called by any model repo that uses the `model-build-test-ci.yml` starter workflow. It uses the images mentioned above to test the installability of modified models (usually created via PRs) quickly.

Author: Added :)

### JSON Lint Pipeline

This pipeline checks that a given `*.json` file complies with an associated `*.schema.json` file. Right now it is only being used in the `build-ci` repo.

## Usage

### For Model repositories

If you want to use the Model Test Pipeline (and the model is available in `access-nri/spack_packages` and has an associated entry in `containers/models.json`), go to the repo, then the `Actions` tab, then the `New Workflow` button. You should see a section of starter workflows by ACCESS-NRI. Simply add the `Model Build Test Workflow`, and next time there is a PR on that repo, it will test for installability.

### Creation of your own Dependency Images

There is an associated `workflow_dispatch` trigger on `build-and-push-image-build.yml` that allows the creation of your own `base-spack` and `dependency` images. Just make sure that the `spack_packages version` tag exists in the `access-nri/spack_packages` repo.

> The Web UI trigger can be [found here](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/build-ci/actions/workflows/build-and-push-image-build.yml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [Web UI trigger](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/build-ci/actions/workflows/build-and-push-image-build.yml) is available.
```

## More information

> For more of a dev-focussed look at the CI pipeline, see `.github/documentation.md`.

Reviewer: Should be in the root directory or merge with the `README.md`

Author: Will do, moving it to `./README-DEV.md`

### Model Test Pipeline

This pipeline is called by any model repo that uses the `model-build-test-ci.yml` starter workflow. It uses the images mentioned above to test the installability of modified models (usually created via PRs) quickly.

Examples of this are [access-nri/cice5](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/cice5/blob/master/.github/workflows/model-build-test-ci.yml) and [access-nri/mom5](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/MOM5/blob/master/.github/workflows/model-build-test-ci.yml)

### JSON Lint Pipeline

This pipeline checks that a given `*.json` file complies with an associated `*.schema.json` file. Right now it is only being used in the `build-ci` repo.

## Usage

### For Model repositories

If you want to use the Model Test Pipeline (and the model is available in `access-nri/spack_packages` and has an associated entry in `containers/models.json`), go to the repo, then the `Actions` tab, then the `New Workflow` button. You should see a section of starter workflows by ACCESS-NRI. Simply add the `Model Build Test Workflow`, and next time there is a PR on that repo, it will test for installability.

### Creation of your own Dependency Images

> There is an associated `workflow_dispatch` trigger on `build-and-push-image-build.yml` that allows the creation of your own `base-spack` and `dependency` images. Just make sure that the `spack_packages version` tag exists in the `access-nri/spack_packages` repo.

Author: Hmm...I suppose that there wouldn't be much of a motivation for end users to create these images. Only thing I could think of is when `compilers.json` or `models.json` are updated...but maybe that should be done automatically whenever they are updated...what do you think?

> There is an associated `workflow_dispatch` trigger on `build-and-push-image-build.yml` that allows the creation of your own `base-spack` and `dependency` images. Just make sure that the `spack_packages version` tag exists in the `access-nri/spack_packages` repo.

Author: Referenced in https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/build-ci/issues/106

> There is an associated `workflow_dispatch` trigger on `build-and-push-image-build.yml` that allows the creation of your own `base-spack` and `dependency` images. Just make sure that the `spack_packages version` tag exists in the `access-nri/spack_packages` repo.

Reviewer 2: Oh god, does that mean we have to include versions of them in the image names? \<brain quietly turns to mush\>

Also workflow name still incorrect I believe.

A [Web UI trigger](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/build-ci/actions/workflows/build-and-push-image-build.yml) is available.

## More information

> For more of a dev-focussed look at the CI pipeline, see `README-DEV.md`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more of a dev-focussed look at the CI pipeline, see [`README-DEV.md`](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/build-ci/blob/main/README-DEV.md).
```
Slightly dodgy, using a link that doesn't exist ... yet. But I'm amongst friends ... right? I wonder if there is a way to do relative links? Hrrrm.
